Studio level motion design is built on
the invisible techniques most designers
overlook. Today, I am breaking down the
top five workflows I use with my
high-end clients to give every project
that polished premium feel. The secret
is that these are not isolated. They are
connected layers of a professional
system. When you integrate them
together, they create a massive
difference in the final result. We are
starting with continuous flow, the
foundation for keeping your animation
smooth and your content perfectly
legible. I am going to start from this
project where I have these photos
arranged in a circle and I also have
this null layer in the middle in here.
And this has this very simple rotation
animation. And we are going to simply
pick all of these photos and simply
parent them to that null. And now if we
play this, we have this animation. The
photos are rotating with the null
completely in here and the animation
does not flow at all. The professional
way to do this is actually to keep each
photo straight as it rotates. And to do
this, it is super simple. We are going
to pick all of these layers. We're going
to change them to 3D. Then we're simply
going to pick the photos, go to layer,
go to transform, and from here select
auto orient. Now from here, we're going
to simply click on orient towards
camera. Like that, the photos will
always orient towards the camera and as
you can see they are perfectly straight
as they are rotating around that null.
And now we have this beautiful animation
which flows perfectly like that. The
great thing about this approach is that
we can continue the continuous flow even
if we animate this along a different
axis. So, I'm going to hit R on my
keyboard on the null layer in here and
I'm simply going to go right over here
and I'm going to now animate the Y
rotation. I can simply pull this in a
different axis like this and as you can
see, they are still oriented perfectly
towards me like that. And now we have
this nice animation right over here. Now
that the flow is locked, we need to move
between scenes without breaking that
momentum. This takes us to technique
number two, the kinetic cut. We are
going to use that peak velocity to hide
our transition, making the switch
between scenes feel completely
invisible. I am going to illustrate this
using this simple example. Right over
here we can see this simple cut
transition from this photo to this
photo, and we are going to apply this
smooth transition to these two photos.
So we are simply going to create a new
null new and null object, and then we
are going to parent both of these photos
to that null. Just parent them right
over here, and then animate any of its
transform properties. So in this case
I'm going to choose scale, but you can
also use position, rotation, or whatever
makes sense. So we're going to put a
keyframe at the start, we're going to
move at the end right over here, and
we're going to just increase that to
around 200%, go now inside of the graph
editor, pick both of these keyframes,
and hit F9 on our keyboard. To explain
this very simply in here, the higher you
are in this graph, the more speed you
have. And what we need to do in this
case is to actually hide this transition
right over here, where we have loads of
speed. Your brain will find it harder to
notice the transition when there is
speed involved. We are going to use that
to our advantage and put the transition
right over there. To do that, we're
simply going to pull this handle right
over here, and then we're going to pull
the end handle right over here,
and now we have a curve like this. Right
here, it is very slow, then it
accelerates, and here is the fastest
part, and then it decelerates back to
zero.
And there we go, like this we have that
nice transition that is hidden within
that motion. And we can apply this to
any example. In here, I have another
example where I have a simple position
animation, and I am transitioning from
this text
to this image right over here. And if we
look at that, it looks like this. And we
are even changing the color, and as you
can see, everything looks so smooth.
This technique really shines when you
actually use it on multiple elements
together. For instance, in my example,
apart from doing this position animation
right over here, I also have done the
same thing over the rotation. So in
here, I have the cursor which is
starting slowly and then it accelerates
and the highest acceleration of that is
right over here.
And then that rotation, that high
rotation, continues on the chair in here
which is rotating fast at this point and
then slows down right over here. And
when combined, it looks like this. So it
goes fast and then slows down right over
there.
And that creates a really smooth
professional transition. I am really
focusing on these hidden studio
workflows today. So please let me know
in the comments if this style is helpful
to you. If you are enjoying the content,
I humbly ask you to subscribe. This
really helps me to reach more people and
be able to do more videos like this one.
And this brings us to the third
technique which is to use 3D. However,
this is not the usual 3D that we are
used to. In fact, I like to call this
strategic 3D. This is where we pick a 2D
element from our scene and we change it
to 3D for only a brief amount of time.
This really helps the viewer to focus on
that specific element and also makes the
whole video more enjoyable. And with the
recent After Effects updates, this has
now become so much easier to implement.
So let's work on that. I'm going to pick
this image and change it to 3D. However,
the thing is that we still need to
create that 3D model and that takes a
whole different skill set to do. For
this reason, I wanted to show you this
great tool that works really well and
bridges the gap. This is Meshify who are
actually sponsoring this segment. Now
Meshify is a web application as you can
see in here and the great thing about
this is that we can pick any image. So
I'm going to pick this chair. I'm going
to drag it and drop it right over here.
And from this image, with a single
button, we can simply generate a 3D
model. So, I'm going to click that
and it takes just a minute to generate
and there we go, we have that chair.
Then, we can simply texture it. So, I'm
going to click on texture and then we
can simply use the same photo to texture
it. Click texture. The texturing takes
another 1 minute and once that's done,
we can go over it right over here. As
you can see, we have this chair with the
material and I think this looks perfect
for the kind of use that I need. Now,
Meshy also have some other cool
features. For instance, apart from
generating from a single image, I can
also generate 3D models from multiple
images. If I go to this batch images
option in here, I can simply pick two
images and I can drag them over here and
like that I can generate two models at
the same time. So, I'm going to click on
generate. There we go, we have our first
model generated right over here. So,
let's have a look at that. It looks very
good and the other model has just
finished generating as well and that
looks perfect. So, that is Meshy.ai
and as you can see, this is super useful
when it comes to converting 2D images
from your compositions to 3D. I'm going
to leave all the links in the
description. So, go check it out. So,
I'm going to go back to my chair right
over here and we are going to integrate
this now into After Effects. Let's
download this object. So, I'm going to
download this GLB format in here.
Download and then we're going to jump
into After Effects.
Back in After Effects, I have the photo
of the chair and I'm just going to drag
and drop the 3D model that we have just
downloaded. You can just simply drag and
drop it right over here. I'm going to
rename it, scale it up so that it
matches the photo underneath it.
And then we are going to rotate it to
match, once again, that photo underneath
it. I'm simply going to position it
right over it and with that done, now we
can start adding lights. Let's look at
that photo. We have a light coming from
this direction and then we have a slight
environment light that is emitting light
over these parts. Let's add that. Let's
go to layer, new, light, and first we're
going to add an environment light.
Turn on draft 3D for now, and then we're
going to increase the intensity of this.
So, let's increase that to 200. Then we
can go to transform, and we can rotate
this light. So, that light is being
emitted from this direction. Then we can
add our spotlight. So, we'll go to
layer, new, and add a light, then spot.
Then if we go inside of transform of
this, we can move this to the side in
here. So, that's perfect. I'm simply
going to move it up. Move the anchor
point right over here.
And as you can see, we cannot see much
light over this right now. So, I'm going
to increase the light intensity of this.
And what we also need to adjust is the
falloff distance. If we increase that
now, we will start seeing that light.
So, now I like the look of the lights,
but I still need to enhance a little bit
the texture of this model. I want to add
a curves effect to this 3D chair.
However, we cannot actually add effects
directly to the 3D models. So, to do
that, we need to go to layer, create,
and then go to create 3D layer instance.
And like this, is created over here. Can
simply drag a curves effect on that
layer. And this will affect the scene
underneath. Enhance the colors a bit in
here, enhance the contrast. And I think
this matches quite well the photo that
we have. And now, with that look ready,
I can animate this. Solo this for now,
hit R on your keyboard. We're going to
start from this position, and then we're
going to rotate it all the way right
over here. Press F9 on our keyboard,
open the graph editor, and we're going
to pull this handle so that it starts
super fast, and then end slowly. This is
exactly the same thing that I did right
over here, where this chair rotates in
3D space.
Next up is number four. This is an
invisible detail, but top-tier studios
use this all the time. Reactive
environments. Basically, no element
exists in a vacuum, but they should
acknowledge and interact with each
other, just like they would do in the
real world. Adding these tiny details
will make the overall design feel more
sophisticated. In my example, I have
this white pointer right over here, and
although it looks good, it still feel
like it doesn't belong. To enhance this,
we are going to pick this pointer, and
we are going to click on this button,
which turns the layer into an adjustment
layer. So, now we can simply pick an
effect in here, for instance, invert,
place that right over that pointer, and
if we click out, we will see that now
the pointers will interact with the
background and change color depending on
the background that it is on. And as you
can see, this little detail really
enhances the look. Now, this looks
great, but I'm going to add one more
thing that is going to bring this all
together. So, I have these photos, and
I'm going to put a quick effect on these
called tint. Let's drop this on the
first one, pick the map the black to,
and we can pick this color right over
here. And now, what I want to do is to
animate this so that when the pointer is
over these photos, this changes the
color to this color. We can do that by
using the amount to tint. So, we can see
if we change this to zero, that is the
original color, but if we change it to
100%, it changes to this color. So, you
can of course animate this by hand,
wherever the pointer is, you can animate
it to 100 then back to zero, but to make
this a bit faster, I have also created a
preset, which you can get from a link in
the description. This preset is great to
create interactive animations in After
Effects, where multiple layers can
interact to a single point. I am going
to pick the pointer, and I'm going to
call this effector. Make sure the naming
of this is exactly like this, effector.
Then, from my effects and presets, I'm
going to get the MoGraph Pro effector
from here. I'm have the effector
selected in here, I'm simply going to
double click. And this would put this
effector on that layer, on the pointer.
Now, I can select this layer, and I'm
going to hit U and U on my keyboard to
open up the attributes of that. So,
let's open the tint completely. Now,
we're going to go to the amount to tint,
and we're going to add a simple property
to this from this effector. So, we're
going to find the MoGraph property
effector from here and we're going to go
to special properties and we are just
going to add the MoGraph special
property one. Double click on that and
once you double click on that this turns
to 100. Now, we are simply going to pick
this tint effect, copy it and then just
paste it over all the other photos. So,
all the other photos have the same
effect on them. Now, by default these
turn all 200%. That's because we need to
go to the effector and tweak some small
things. So, we're going to go to the
affected properties first and we're
going to find the special properties in
here, go to property one
and we just need to tweak property one
from we're going to set that to zero so
that it starts from zero and then goes
up to 100.
Now, we also need to tweak the effector
from right over here and in here we're
just going to increase the radius
strength so that this is more affected.
There we go. Now, we can see as we
increase the radius strength now this
photo is being affected by that tint
effect and now the whole animation looks
like this. As you can see each photo
reacts and changes its color as the
pointer is right over it. Once again, if
you'd like to try this just check the
description for the link to this preset.
I have also done videos in the past that
show how you can do this without a
preset. You can also check those out.
That was reactive environments and now
for the final technique tactile
typography. This is a massive trend
right now thanks to some new features in
After Effects and it will make your text
feel more alive. In this example we have
this simple text reveal and we can
enhance this very easily by opening it
up. We are going to add another
animator, go to animate and from here
select variable font axis. So, it's down
below in here variable font axis and
then you are going to click on weight.
Once you add that you will have this new
animator and it will be called font axis
weight. Now, it is very important that
for this to work, you need to be using a
variable font. And if you don't have
variable fonts, you can get them from
the Adobe Typekit. I have this font in
here called Drummond variable, and by
default, it is set to light. But in
here, since I have added this font axis
in here, I can actually tweak that
weight. So, if I scrub this, you can see
the weight being tweaked in there. I'm
going to change this now to 700. So,
like that, you can see how the text is
super thick. But in this case, I'm going
to use the range selector to animate
this over time. So, let's open the range
selector. We're going to go to offset
and see how that affects it. So, we're
going to animate this from zero to 100
in here. So, let's start from a zero,
click the stopwatch, and then go right
over here, and edit to 100.
And we can continue to enhance this by
going to advanced, and we're going to
drop the smoothness right over here, so
that it feels a little bit more tactile.
I'm also going to click on randomize
order, so that this happens randomly on
different characters right over here.
And like that, our text now have so much
more character. And this is how it looks
when it is combined with the rest of the
scene. And that brings this to an end.
If there are any other techniques that
you would like to learn about, or that
you use in your workflow, please let me
know in the comments section below. And
if you want to go even deeper into some
of the techniques, I actually made a
dedicated video on reactive environments
right over here.